# Arrays

## Task 1 - Declaring an Array

Convert these lists of things into JavaScript arrays.

E.G.

### Example: Favorite Foods

- Cheese
- Chocolate
- Olives
- Anchovies

Would become...

```js
let favoriteFoods = ["Cheese", "Chocolate", "Olives", "Anchovies"];
```

👉 You do the rest!

### 1. Favorite Songs

- Tiny Dancer
- Running Up That Hill
- Don't Stop Moving
- Tragedy
- Crazy Horses

### 2. Profit From First Seven Days of Chris' Penny Doubling Pyramid Scheme

- 1
- 2
- 4
- 8
- 16
- 32
- 64

### 3. SoC Team (hint: combine with your morning knowledge)

- Name is Ben, special skill is code rapping.
- Name is Tao, special skill is hand raising.
- Name is Lizzie, special skill is being friendly.
- Name is Liz.K, special skill is crotchet.
- Name is Mell, special skill is winning quizzes.
- Name is Chris, special skill is changing lives.
- Name is Tim, special skill is kitchen based analogies.
- Name is James, special skill is mannequin friendship.
- Name is Banwo, special skill is having accidents.

## Task 2 - Reading Array Values

```js
let options = [
  "Jan",
  "Feb",
  "Mar",
  "Apr",
  "May",
  "Jun",
  "Jul",
  "Aug",
  "Sep",
  "Oct",
  "Nov",
  "Dec",
];
```

Using bracket notation and the correct index...

👉 Console.log the month in which you were born.

👉 Console.log the month your mother was born.

👉 Console.log your favorite month.

## Task 3 - Looping and Accessing

We can use the useful loops we learnt yesterday to access the items in an array.

```js
let englishNumbers = ["one", "two", "three", "four", "five"];
```

👉 Declare an index variable and assign it the value of 0.

👉 In a while loop, console.log the array item at the current index and add 1 to the index variable.

👉 Have the while loop until the index is greater than the array's length property.

## Task 4 - Looping and Accessing

👉 Refactor task three to use a for loop instead of a while loop.

## Task 5 - Looping and Reassigning

```js
let words = ["ben", "ha", "spla", "fa", "ca", "dra"];
// for loop goes here

console.log(words);
```

👉 Use a for loop to iterate over the words array and add the letter t to the end of each word.
